This directory contains *.R files with the commands needed to reproduce the analysis and plots in Beilsmith, Perisin, and Bergelson 2020: "Natural bacterial assemblages in Arabidopsis thaliana tissues become more distinguishable and diverse during host development." The order in which the files are used matters because some of the commands rely on variables created in other files.

1_KBMP2020_ImportData.R		Assembles a phyloseq object from the 16S ASV table, taxonomy, tree, and sample metadata.

2_KBMP2020_CommunitySurvey.R	The data are pruned to the most abundant ASVs and the relative abundance and counts of different bacterial classes in soil and plant tissue samples are compared.

3_KBMP2020_Membership.R		Samples are compared for the number and proportion of ASVs they share, randomly or conditioned on sample variables. Figure 1A.

4_KBMP2020_FindEffects.R	Sample variables are tested for association with community composition in permutational ANOVA, a model is assembled with significant terms, and PERMANOVA is performed.
				The matrix of community dissimilarities is used in PCoA for Figure 1B and 1C and Table 2. PERMANOVAs are repeated with different taxonomic groupings. Tables 4 and S8.

5_KBMP2020_EffectRobustness.R	PERMANOVA and PCoAs are repeated with different distance metrics and preparations of the count data (rarefaction, normalization, filters). Figure S6 and Table 2.

6_KBMP2020_BetaDiversity.R	The UniFrac distances between samples from the same tissue vs. different tissues and between samples from the same site vs. different sites are compared. Figure 2.
				PERMANOVAs on root and shoot tissues across developmental transitions are performed. Table 3 and Table S7.

7_KBMP2020_ASVDrivers.R		The regression coefficients from the PERMANOVA (4_KBMP2020_FindEffects.R) are used to identify the ASVs underlying tissue and temporal effects.

8_KBMP2020_ASVProperties.R	Pervasive (vs. tissue-specific) and recurrent (vs. stage-specific) ASVs are removed from the dataset and PERMANOVAs and PCoAs are repeated.
				Prevalence and abundance of ASVs are also examined.

9_KBMP2020_PlottingDF.R		For ASVs driving effects (7_KBMP2020_ASVDrivers.R), a dataframe is constructred with mean + stdev of relative abundance and the mean prevalence in each harvest condition.
				Figures 3 and S9 (dotplots showing spatial distributions) and Figure 4 (time series).

10_KBMP2020_Diversity.R		Several metrics of diversity (richness, phylogenetic diversity, max relative abundance, and evenness) are calculated for soil and plant samples from the Year 2 time series.
				The relative abundance distributions for all ASVs are compared across timepoints. Figures 5 and 6.



